restructured install documentation (#647)
cert-manager/website: content/en/docs/installation/helm.md

---
title: "Helm"
linkTitle: "Helm"
weight: 22
type: "docs"
---

> Note: From cert-manager `v1.2.0` onward, the minimum supported version of
> Kubernetes is `v1.16.0`. Users still running Kubernetes `v1.15` or below should
> upgrade to a supported version before installing cert-manager.

> **Warning**: You should not install multiple instances of cert-manager on a single
> cluster. This will lead to undefined behavior and you may be banned from
> providers such as Let's Encrypt.

## Installing with Helm

> > **Note**: cert-manager should never be embedded as a sub-chart into other Helm charts.
> > cert-manager manages non-namespaced resources in your cluster and should only be installed once.

Reviewer: suggestion: I don't think this needs to be formatted as a note, and we could add a little more intro text:

```suggestion
cert-manager provides Helm charts as a first-class method of installation on both Kubernetes and OpenShift.

Be sure never to embed cert-manager as a sub-chart of other Helm charts; cert-manager manages
non-namespaced resources in your cluster and care must be taken to ensure that it is installed exactly once.
```

### Prerequisites

> - Helm v3 installed

Reviewer: suggestion: as mentioned above

```suggestion
- Helm version 3 or later
- A Kubernetes or OpenShift cluster running a [supported version](link/to/supported-versions/page/here)
- cert-manager not already installed on the cluster
```

### Steps

> In order to install the Helm chart, you must follow these steps:

Reviewer: suggestion: we can remove this text entirely, it's not adding anything

```suggestion
```

#### 1. Add the Jetstack Helm repository:

> > **Warning**: It is important that this repository is used to install
> > cert-manager. The version residing in the [Helm stable repository](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/cert-manager) is
> > *deprecated* and should *NOT* be used.

Reviewer: suggestion: I don't think we should link to a deprecated repository; we should just encourage people to use our repo. I also don't think this needs to be highlighted as a warning.

```suggestion
This repository is the only supported source of cert-manager charts. There are some other mirrors and copies across the internet, but those are entirely unofficial and could present a security risk.

Notably, the "Helm stable repository" version of cert-manager is deprecated and should not be used.
```

```bash
$ helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
```

#### 2. Update your local Helm chart repository cache:

```bash
$ helm repo update
```

#### 3. Install `CustomResourceDefinitions`

> cert-manager requires a number of CRD resources to be installed into your
> cluster as part of installation.
> 
> This can either be done manually, using `kubectl`, or using the `installCRDs`
> option when installing the Helm chart.

Reviewer: suggestion: this is weirdly phrased and too wordy, I think

```suggestion
cert-manager requires a number of CRD resources, which can  be installed manually using `kubectl`,
or using the `installCRDs` option when installing the Helm chart.
```

> **Note**: If you're using a `helm` version based on Kubernetes `v1.18` or below (Helm `v3.2`) `installCRDs` will not work with cert-manager `v0.16`.

> > For more info see the [v0.16 upgrade notes](../upgrading/upgrading-0.15-0.16/#helm)

Reviewer: suggestion: this can be moved under the option 2 heading below, since it's only relevant to that option

##### Option 1: installing CRDs with `kubectl`

> Install the `CustomResourceDefinition` resources using `kubectl`:

Reviewer: suggestion: this text doesn't provide any new information and I think it can be removed

```suggestion
```

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.4.0/cert-manager.crds.yaml
```

##### Option 2: install CRDs as part of the Helm release

To automatically install and manage the CRDs as part of your Helm release, you
must add the `--set installCRDs=true` flag to your Helm installation command.

Uncomment the relevant line in the next steps to enable this.

> 

Reviewer: suggestion: add the block about older versions of Helm here

```suggestion

Note that if you're using a `helm` version based on Kubernetes `v1.18` or below (Helm `v3.2`), `installCRDs` will not work with cert-manager `v0.16`. See the [v0.16 upgrade notes](../upgrading/upgrading-0.15-0.16/#helm) for more details.

```

#### 3. Install cert-manager

To install the cert-manager Helm chart, use the [Helm install command](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) as described below.

```bash
$ helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.4.0 \
  # --set installCRDs=true
```

> On the [cert-manager's ArtifactHub page](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/cert-manager/cert-manager) a full list of the available **Helm values** can be found.

Reviewer: suggestion: rewording

```suggestion
A full list of available Helm values is on [cert-manager's ArtifactHub page](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/cert-manager/cert-manager).
```

The example below shows how to tune the cert-manager installation by overwriting the default Helm values:

```bash
$ helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.4.0 \
  --set prometheus.enabled=false \  # Example: disabling prometheus using a Helm parameter
  --set webhook.timeoutSeconds=4s   # Example: changing the wehbook timeout using a Helm parameter
```

> Once you have deployed cert-manager, you can verify the installation
> [here](../verify/).

Reviewer: suggestion: make the verb the link, rather than adding a "here"

```suggestion
Once you have deployed cert-manager, you can [verify](../verify/) the installation.
```
